---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-08-13T12:29:54.251Z'
dateModified: '2016-08-13T12:29:24.152Z'
title: ''
author: []
via: {}
authors: []
publisher: {}
starred: false
sourcePath: _posts/2016-08-13-8eeed95c-2686-4544-a608-f47ccf61adc6.md
url: 8eeed95c-2686-4544-a608-f47ccf61adc6/index.html
_type: Article

---
****

****

****

****

Inline Skate Glossary Not sure what a particular term may mean when it comes to inline skating? Then use this glossary. We've broken down key and common terms so that you never need to feel confused again!

ABEC: The ABEC stands for Annular Bearing Engineer Council. You'll see ABEC-1/3/5 ratings, which are indicators of bearing reaching specific precision and specification levels.

ABT (Active Brake Technology): This is a patented braking system that is used to ensure all eight wheel are on the ground when braking. This allows for easier management of braking, activated when the calf presses against the rear cuff.

Axle Systems: Axle systems are used to secure the wheel bearing to the skate frame, and allows the axis of rotation to work out.

Bearings: Typically, bearings are the metal elements inside the hub of a wheel, with around two per wheel. Makes use of industry standards for maximum support, with around 6mm inner and 8mm outer diameters.

Bearing spacers: These bearing spacers are small parts which are used between bearings, which allow axles to go through the wheels safely. Typically made of plastic, some use metal -- some are threaded, as well.

Anti-rocker: A typical wheel configuration style, typically used by sliders with larger wheels at the toe and heel areas. Also used by smaller wheels in the middle to allow for easier sliding without obstruction.

Bashing (stair bashing): Otherwise known as stair bumping -- when you ride along stairs.

Bearing Popper: Usually found on the Blade Tool from a Rollerblade set, this is a popper that releases the bearings from the wheel. Makes it easy to remove the bearing without damaging it.

BOA: A specific form of lacing technology which uses dials to tighten rather than laces.

Crossovers: Typically, crossovers are used for skating along a curved path, whilst still stroking. Allows you to maintain speed on the turn, and is commonly seen in figure skating in particular.

Convex Shape: The Convex shape is a name used for the outward curve on a frame design. This adds greater strength and improves solidity whilst decreasing weight.

Core: The nylon centre of the wheel -- usually includes hubs which can be anything from open core and closed core to fully hubless.

Cuff: A name provided to the upper section of the skate shell and liner.

Durometer: The Durometer is a typical industry rating for the hardness of the polyurethane on the wheel. The highest usable feature is around 92-95A although it technically goes to 100A.

Frame spacers: Typically, these are small parts of the skate that will go between the wheels and the runners. Typically use oval shaped frame spacers to allow for 180-degrees flipping for rocking the skates.

Footbeds: The same as the footbed in any other form of shoe -- found at the bottom of the liner. Usually known as an insole. Can be used to improve comfort and performance when using the skates or changed to find a specific fit.

Fully Serviceable Bearings: The vast majority of bearings will be known as full service -- this means that they can be removed fully, and cleaned/lubricated for restored performance.

Grind plates: Typically, a grind plate is a flat metal/plastic plate that is bolted onto a runner for grinding and rail sliding to avoid runners from being damaged.

Hardware: Usually used to refer to the axle systems and bearing spacers.

Hop-up kits: A hop-up kit is used to upgrade various elements of the kit, from bearing spacers and frame spacers to the axels. Usually made from some form of metal, and allows for threaded spacers to be fitted. Allows for cranking without warping or damaging the spacers.

Lateral Support: A name provided to the support used in a skate that allows side-to-side movement. Improves ankle support and edge control when you are tuning.

Memory Foam: A material which will mould to fit the foot of the person involved using the skates, increasing comfort massively when skating.

Monocoque: When you use this, it means that the whole skate comes as one. This provides extra solidity which -- depending on your style and purpose of skating -- could be a good or a bad thing!

Non-Serviceable Bearings: These are typically bearings which are now sealed in permanence and could not be serviced, only replaced.

Polyethylene: A form of plastic used to form specific forms of skate shells. Normally, a softer and more comfortable material to wear than polyurethane.

Polyurethane: Plastic which is used in the production of a specific skate shell, and is typically stiffer with stronger support than polyethylene without the same comfort.

Precision Bearings: A bearing that lacks a specific ABEC rating. Profile: The level of wheel that comes into contact with the surface that is skating. Usually known as a narrow, rounded or wide profile when purchasing skates.

Rebound: This measures the overall level of ounce of the wheel the higher the rebound level, the better energy usage the wearer will have. Low rebound offers less life, meaning they use more energy to use.

Rocker: Usually formed in a curved shape within the skates wheelbase itself, this creates a rock or a tip. This is usually achieved by using spacers or various sized wheels.

Rail slides: Rail slides are a common choice for those who want to enjoy a skating trick, where you slide along the rail in various poses. Usually makes use of a small wheel setup to allow the runners to slide along the railing. Wears down plastic runners quickly.

Road rash: A common term for all of the scrapes and smashes that we can get from sliding on the pavement!

Rockering: A common term which means you have arranged the wheel heights to a curved blade. Normally achieved by raising the front and rear wheels a bit, flipping the frame spacers, or lowering the middle two wheels. Offers better turning for reduced stability.

Skitching: Another popular term, this comes from the idea of skate hitching. Hanging onto a moving object as you pull along -- think Marty McFly in Back to the Future!

Stair riding: A common trick were you will slide along a set of steps going downward. Obviously dangerous but equally thrilling. Protect yourself before trying this out!

Serviceable Bearings: Bearings that have small, removable shields for cleaning and lubricating for better, more consistent performance. Shell: A plastic, outer section of the skate that is usually made from a form of moulded plastic.

Ventilation: Skates are typically improved to offer a ventilated process to offer a more breathable skating experience. Usually managed by creating holes in the shell.

Wheelbase: The measure of the length -- usually determines stability of the skate. The loner, the more stable but less agile and vice versa.

Wheel rotation: Over time wheels will wear down and weaken, and they can be extended by extending, flipping or rotating wheels between each other so that less worn areas are being used commonly.